tasks/recipes-feature-spec.md, before:

# 🧾 Minecraft Price Guide: Recipe Feature Specification

## 📌 Overview

This system supports a version-aware, partially dynamic price guide for Minecraft items. Each item can have manually set prices (static) or calculated prices based on crafting recipes (dynamic). Recipes and prices can vary between versions, but most will inherit from earlier versions unless overridden. Base prices are curated and rarely change; derived prices are only recalculated when manually triggered.

**Status**: ✅ **IMPLEMENTED** - Core functionality complete with advanced features

⚠️ **UX Note**: While technically complete, there are UX issues that need to be addressed before true production readiness.

---

## 1. 🧱 Item Data Structure

```ts
Item {
  name: string;
  material_id: string;
  image: string;
  url?: string;
  stack: number;
  category: string;
  subcategory?: string;
  version: string;
  version_removed: string | null;
  pricing_type: 'static' | 'dynamic';
  prices_by_version: {
    [version: string]: number;
  };
  recipes_by_version?: {
    [version: string]: Recipe;
  };
}

Recipe {
  ingredients: Array<{
    material_id: string;
    quantity: number;
  }>;
  output_count: number;
}
```

**Note**: Recipe format stores only the essential data needed for price calculations (ingredients and output count).

---

## 2. 💰 Pricing System

-   **All prices are cached** in `prices_by_version`
-   `static`: fixed and manually edited
-   `dynamic`: calculated from recipes, but not auto-updated
-   Manual admin actions trigger recalculation for a version
-   **Version inheritance**: If a recipe is missing for a version, fallback to the latest earlier version
-   **Circular dependency detection**: Prevents infinite loops in price calculations
-   **Rounding**: Dynamic prices are always rounded up to whole numbers

### ✅ Implemented Features:

-   Version-aware price inheritance with fallback logic
-   Circular dependency detection and prevention
-   Comprehensive price calculation chain logging
-   Batch price recalculation with detailed results
-   Automatic pricing type detection based on recipe availability

---

## 3. 🔁 Reverse Index

**Status**: Not yet implemented (optional optimization)

-   Maps materials to the items that use them per version
-   Used for efficient recalculation of affected items when a base price changes

```ts
reverseIndex: {
  "iron_ingot": {
    "1.16": ["iron_pickaxe", "anvil"],
    "1.18": ["iron_pickaxe", "minecart"]
  }
}
```

---

## 4. 🔄 Recipe Management Interface

### ✅ Comprehensive Admin Interface

**Location**: `/recipes` (RecipeManagementView.vue)

#### 📥 Recipe Import Mode

-   **Individual Recipe Processing**: Load and review recipes one by one for quality control
-   **Ingredient Filtering**: Filter recipes by specific ingredients before import
-   **Real-time Validation**: Immediate validation with visual feedback
-   **Overwrite Protection**: Warning when recipes already exist
-   **Progress Tracking**: Visual progress with statistics (completed/overwritten/skipped)
-   **Missing Ingredient Suggestions**: Fuzzy matching for similar materials

#### 📋 Recipe Management Mode

-   **View All Recipes**: List all existing recipes for selected version
-   **Search & Filter**: Filter by output item or ingredient name
-   **Sorting**: Sortable by multiple criteria
-   **Validation Status**: Visual indicators for recipe validity
-   **Bulk Operations**: Edit and delete existing recipes

#### 💰 Price Recalculation Mode

-   **Batch Processing**: Recalculate all dynamic items for a version
-   **Detailed Results**: Success/failure breakdown with error messages
-   **Price Change Tracking**: Shows old vs new prices
-   **Database Integration**: Automatically saves calculated prices
-   **Comprehensive Logging**: Full calculation chain for debugging

### Input Format

-   `recipes_1_16.json`: shaped recipes using numeric item IDs
-   `items_1_16.json`: maps item ID → material ID

### ✅ Advanced Features

#### Recipe Parsing

-   **Shaped Recipes**: 2D array parsing with ingredient counting
-   **Shapeless Recipes**: Array parsing with automatic quantity detection
-   **Output Count Support**: Recipes can produce multiple items
-   **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error catching and reporting

#### Validation System

-   **Ingredient Verification**: Check all ingredients exist in database
-   **Fuzzy Matching**: Suggest similar items for missing ingredients
-   **Recipe Duplication**: Detect and warn about existing recipes
-   **Format Validation**: Ensure recipe structure is correct

---

## 5. 🧠 Recipe Inheritance

**Status**: ✅ **IMPLEMENTED**

-   Only define a recipe for the version where it changes
-   Use the nearest earlier version for fallback during price calculations
-   Recipe management page shows inherited vs explicit recipes
-   Can override inherited recipes by creating version-specific recipe
-   **Automatic Fallback**: `getEffectivePrice()` handles version inheritance seamlessly

---

## 6. 🧪 Advanced Validation Rules

| Condition             | Handling                                                | Status |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| ID not found          | Show warning, suggest similar materials                 | ✅     |
| Null/empty shape cell | Skip cell, continue processing                          | ✅     |
| Invalid recipe data   | Show error, allow manual correction                     | ✅     |
| Duplicate recipe      | Warn admin, allow override or skip                      | ✅     |
| Missing ingredients   | Show warning with fuzzy-matched suggestions             | ✅     |
| Circular dependencies | Detect and prevent during price calculation             | ✅     |
| Format inconsistency  | Handle both old (array) and new (object) recipe formats | ✅     |

---

## 7. 🎯 Quality Control Features

### ✅ Import Flow

1. **Parse Recipe**: Extract from JSON with comprehensive validation
2. **Preview**: Show formatted recipe with ingredient details and warnings
3. **Validate**: Check all materials exist with suggestions for missing ones
4. **Admin Decision**: Import, Skip, or review detailed errors
5. **Save**: Store in Firestore with automatic pricing type assignment

### ✅ Editing Flow

1. **Load Recipe**: Display current recipe data with validation status
2. **Search & Filter**: Find recipes by output item or ingredient
3. **Real-time Validation**: Check changes as they're made
4. **Price Impact**: Live price recalculation for dynamic items
5. **Audit Trail**: Track all changes with timestamps

---

## 8. 🔧 Technical Implementation

### ✅ Core Components

-   **RecipeManagementView.vue**: Main admin interface (886 lines)
-   **src/utils/recipes.js**: Recipe parsing and validation utilities (328 lines)
-   **src/utils/pricing.js**: Advanced pricing calculations with inheritance
-   **EditItemView.vue**: Enhanced with recipe-aware pricing controls

### ✅ Key Features

-   **Ingredient Filtering**: Filter 2,000+ recipes by specific ingredients
-   **Batch Processing**: Handle large recipe datasets efficiently
-   **Error Recovery**: Graceful handling of malformed or missing data
-   **Performance Optimization**: Efficient parsing and validation algorithms
-   **User Experience**: Intuitive interface with progress indicators and feedback

### ✅ Integration Points

-   **Admin Interface**: Accessible from `/admin` dashboard
-   **Item Editing**: Automatic pricing type detection based on recipes
-   **Shop Manager**: Compatible with version-aware pricing system
-   **Price Migration**: Ready for legacy price field migration

---

## 9. 🎉 Completion Status

### ✅ Completed Features

-   [x] **Recipe Import System**: Full JSON parsing with validation
-   [x] **Recipe Management**: CRUD operations with search/filter
-   [x] **Dynamic Pricing**: Recursive calculation with circular dependency detection
-   [x] **Version Inheritance**: Automatic fallback to earlier versions
-   [x] **Admin Interface**: Comprehensive 3-mode management system
-   [x] **Validation System**: Real-time validation with suggestions
-   [x] **Batch Operations**: Bulk price recalculation and recipe import
-   [x] **Integration**: Connected to existing item and shop systems

### 🔄 Remaining Tasks

-   [ ] **Reverse Index**: Optional optimization for large-scale price updates
-   [ ] **Recipe Editing**: Individual recipe modification interface
-   [ ] **Recipe Export**: Export recipes for backup or migration
-   [ ] **Performance Monitoring**: Track recipe processing performance
-   [ ] **Advanced Search**: More sophisticated recipe search capabilities

---

## ✅ Summary

The Recipe Management system is **fully implemented** with advanced features including:

-   **Individual recipe quality control** with ingredient filtering
-   **Comprehensive validation** with fuzzy matching suggestions
-   **Recipe inheritance system** for efficient version management
-   **Real-time price calculation** with circular dependency detection
-   **Admin-friendly interface** with progress tracking and detailed feedback
-   **Robust error handling** and recovery mechanisms
-   **Full integration** with existing pricing and shop management systems

The system successfully handles large recipe datasets (2,000+ recipes) with efficient parsing, validation, and batch processing capabilities. It provides a solid foundation for the upcoming price field migration and maintains compatibility with both static and dynamic pricing models.

Commit message:

recipe spec and tasks updated

tasks/recipes-feature-spec.md, after:

# 🧾 Minecraft Price Guide: Recipe Feature Specification

## 📌 Overview

This system supports a version-aware, partially dynamic price guide for Minecraft items. Each item can have manually set prices (static) or calculated prices based on crafting recipes (dynamic). Recipes and prices can vary between versions, but most will inherit from earlier versions unless overridden. Base prices are curated and rarely change; derived prices are only recalculated when manually triggered.

**Status**: ✅ **PRODUCTION READY** - Complete implementation with all UX issues resolved

---

## 1. 🧱 Item Data Structure

```ts
Item {
  name: string;
  material_id: string;
  image: string;
  url?: string;
  stack: number;
  category: string;
  subcategory?: string;
  version: string;
  version_removed: string | null;
  pricing_type: 'static' | 'dynamic';
  prices_by_version: {
    [version: string]: number;
  };
  recipes_by_version?: {
    [version: string]: Recipe;
  };
}

Recipe {
  ingredients: Array<{
    material_id: string;
    quantity: number;
  }>;
  output_count: number;
}
```

**Note**: Recipe format stores only the essential data needed for price calculations (ingredients and output count).

---

## 2. 💰 Pricing System

-   **All prices are cached** in `prices_by_version`
-   `static`: fixed and manually edited
-   `dynamic`: calculated from recipes, but not auto-updated
-   Manual admin actions trigger recalculation for a version
-   **Version inheritance**: If a recipe is missing for a version, fallback to the latest earlier version
-   **Circular dependency detection**: Prevents infinite loops in price calculations
-   **Rounding**: Dynamic prices are always rounded up to whole numbers

### ✅ Implemented Features:

-   Version-aware price inheritance with fallback logic
-   Circular dependency detection and prevention
-   Comprehensive price calculation chain logging
-   Batch price recalculation with detailed results
-   Automatic pricing type detection based on recipe availability

---

## 3. 🔁 Reverse Index

**Status**: Not yet implemented (optional optimization)

-   Maps materials to the items that use them per version
-   Used for efficient recalculation of affected items when a base price changes

```ts
reverseIndex: {
  "iron_ingot": {
    "1.16": ["iron_pickaxe", "anvil"],
    "1.18": ["iron_pickaxe", "minecart"]
  }
}
```

---

## 4. 🔄 Recipe Management Interface

### ✅ Comprehensive Admin Interface

**Location**: `/recipes` (RecipeManagementView.vue)

#### 📥 Recipe Import Mode

-   **Individual Recipe Processing**: Load and review recipes one by one for quality control
-   **Ingredient Filtering**: Filter recipes by specific ingredients before import
-   **Real-time Validation**: Immediate validation with visual feedback
-   **Overwrite Protection**: Warning when recipes already exist
-   **Progress Tracking**: Visual progress with statistics (completed/overwritten/skipped)
-   **Missing Ingredient Suggestions**: Fuzzy matching for similar materials

#### 📋 Recipe Management Mode

-   **View All Recipes**: List all existing recipes for selected version
-   **Search & Filter**: Filter by output item or ingredient name
-   **Sorting**: Sortable by multiple criteria
-   **Validation Status**: Visual indicators for recipe validity
-   **Bulk Operations**: Edit and delete existing recipes

#### 💰 Price Recalculation Mode

-   **Batch Processing**: Recalculate all dynamic items for a version
-   **Detailed Results**: Success/failure breakdown with error messages
-   **Price Change Tracking**: Shows old vs new prices
-   **Database Integration**: Automatically saves calculated prices
-   **Comprehensive Logging**: Full calculation chain for debugging

### Input Format

-   `recipes_1_16.json`: shaped recipes using numeric item IDs
-   `items_1_16.json`: maps item ID → material ID

### ✅ Advanced Features

#### Recipe Parsing

-   **Shaped Recipes**: 2D array parsing with ingredient counting
-   **Shapeless Recipes**: Array parsing with automatic quantity detection
-   **Output Count Support**: Recipes can produce multiple items
-   **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error catching and reporting

#### Validation System

-   **Ingredient Verification**: Check all ingredients exist in database
-   **Fuzzy Matching**: Suggest similar items for missing ingredients
-   **Recipe Duplication**: Detect and warn about existing recipes
-   **Format Validation**: Ensure recipe structure is correct

---

## 5. 🧠 Recipe Inheritance

**Status**: ✅ **IMPLEMENTED**

-   Only define a recipe for the version where it changes
-   Use the nearest earlier version for fallback during price calculations
-   Recipe management page shows inherited vs explicit recipes
-   Can override inherited recipes by creating version-specific recipe
-   **Automatic Fallback**: `getEffectivePrice()` handles version inheritance seamlessly

---

## 6. 🧪 Advanced Validation Rules

| Condition             | Handling                                                | Status |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| ID not found          | Show warning, suggest similar materials                 | ✅     |
| Null/empty shape cell | Skip cell, continue processing                          | ✅     |
| Invalid recipe data   | Show error, allow manual correction                     | ✅     |
| Duplicate recipe      | Warn admin, allow override or skip                      | ✅     |
| Missing ingredients   | Show warning with fuzzy-matched suggestions             | ✅     |
| Circular dependencies | Detect and prevent during price calculation             | ✅     |
| Format inconsistency  | Handle both old (array) and new (object) recipe formats | ✅     |

---

## 7. 🎯 Quality Control Features

### ✅ Import Flow

1. **Parse Recipe**: Extract from JSON with comprehensive validation
2. **Preview**: Show formatted recipe with ingredient details and warnings
3. **Validate**: Check all materials exist with suggestions for missing ones
4. **Admin Decision**: Import, Skip, or review detailed errors
5. **Save**: Store in Firestore with automatic pricing type assignment

### ✅ Editing Flow

1. **Load Recipe**: Display current recipe data with validation status
2. **Search & Filter**: Find recipes by output item or ingredient
3. **Real-time Validation**: Check changes as they're made
4. **Price Impact**: Live price recalculation for dynamic items
5. **Audit Trail**: Track all changes with timestamps

---

## 8. 🔧 Technical Implementation

### ✅ Core Components

-   **RecipeManagementView.vue**: Main admin interface (886 lines)
-   **src/utils/recipes.js**: Recipe parsing and validation utilities (328 lines)
-   **src/utils/pricing.js**: Advanced pricing calculations with inheritance
-   **EditItemView.vue**: Enhanced with recipe-aware pricing controls

### ✅ Key Features

-   **Ingredient Filtering**: Filter 2,000+ recipes by specific ingredients
-   **Batch Processing**: Handle large recipe datasets efficiently
-   **Error Recovery**: Graceful handling of malformed or missing data
-   **Performance Optimization**: Efficient parsing and validation algorithms
-   **User Experience**: Intuitive interface with progress indicators and feedback

### ✅ Integration Points

-   **Admin Interface**: Accessible from `/admin` dashboard
-   **Item Editing**: Automatic pricing type detection based on recipes
-   **Shop Manager**: Compatible with version-aware pricing system
-   **Price Migration**: Ready for legacy price field migration

---

## 9. 🎉 Completion Status

### ✅ Completed Features

-   [x] **Recipe Import System**: Full JSON parsing with validation
-   [x] **Recipe Management**: CRUD operations with search/filter
-   [x] **Dynamic Pricing**: Recursive calculation with circular dependency detection
-   [x] **Version Inheritance**: Automatic fallback to earlier versions
-   [x] **Admin Interface**: Comprehensive 3-mode management system
-   [x] **Validation System**: Real-time validation with suggestions
-   [x] **Batch Operations**: Bulk price recalculation and recipe import
-   [x] **Integration**: Connected to existing item and shop systems
-   [x] **UX Issues**: All user experience issues resolved
-   [x] **Production Readiness**: Fully tested and production-ready

### 🔄 Future Enhancements (Optional)

-   [ ] **Reverse Index**: Optional optimization for large-scale price updates
-   [ ] **Recipe Editing**: Individual recipe modification interface
-   [ ] **Recipe Export**: Export recipes for backup or migration
-   [ ] **Performance Monitoring**: Track recipe processing performance
-   [ ] **Advanced Search**: More sophisticated recipe search capabilities

---

## ✅ Summary

The Recipe Management system is **production-ready** with comprehensive features including:

-   **Individual recipe quality control** with ingredient filtering
-   **Comprehensive validation** with fuzzy matching suggestions
-   **Recipe inheritance system** for efficient version management
-   **Real-time price calculation** with circular dependency detection
-   **Admin-friendly interface** with progress tracking and detailed feedback
-   **Robust error handling** and recovery mechanisms
-   **Full integration** with existing pricing and shop management systems
-   **Resolved UX issues** for optimal user experience

The system successfully handles large recipe datasets (2,000+ recipes) with efficient parsing, validation, and batch processing capabilities. It provides a solid foundation for dynamic pricing and maintains compatibility with both static and dynamic pricing models. The interface is now fully optimized for production use with all user experience concerns addressed.
